# Introduction

Pocketmint is split into two parts: A frontend repository and a backend repository. This is the frontend repository.

# Frameworks and Language

The frontend repository is written in the React framework, bootstrapped using Vite. It relies heavily on TailwindCSS and [shadcnUI](https://ui.shadcn.com/) for styling and component design. Type safety is enforced by using TypeScript. Finally, any additional packages used can be found in `package.json`.

# Setting Up

## Setting Up and Modifying Environment Variables

Variables that belong in an `.env` file are handled by Github secrets. Firebase hosting does not directly manage secrets/environment variables. As such, we must assign them in Repository > Settings > Secrets and Variables. In addition, we must allow the build to access these variables by creating a `.env` during the CI/CD process. Refer to `.github/firebase-hosting-merge.yml` and `.github/firebase-hosting-pull-request.yml`: Environment variables are retrieved from Github Secrets, before being `echo`'d into a `.env` in the build.

NOTE: [[According to Vite]](https://vitejs.dev/guide/env-and-mode.html), environment variables are called with `import.meta.env.VAR_NAME`, which are replaced with the actual value when the code is built. As such, variable names must start with the `VITE_` prefix, and named/accessed accordingly both in `.env`, in Github Secrets, and in the codebase.

## Installation and Running

You will need to install the `yarn` package manager. In `src`, run `yarn install` to install dependencies. To run, enter `yarn dev`.

By default, Vite supports hot reloading.

# Hosting and Authentication

Hosting and Authentication is done using firebase hosting/auth. Please login using the Pocketmint Google account and head to the Firebase Console. **The only relevant project is Firebase Frontend**. Automatic CI/CD has already been automatically setup by Firebase Hosting.

# Repository Walkthrough

I will be covering important files and codebase organization in this section. I won't be covering every file, just important ones to note.

## Under `/`

Most files are self-explanatory, or are config files. Please check relevant documentation online for what each file does.

## Under `/src`

- `App.jsx`: Contains routing behavior for the application. `pocketmint-frontend` uses React-Router-V6 as its routing mechanism, with a directory structure similar to directory-driven routing in NextJS.
- `/api`: Contains functions to perform API calls to `pocketmint-backend`. Files prepended with the `dep-` prefix have been depreciated, and can be ignored/deleted. I kept these files for reference.
- `/assets`: Contains relevant media files to be displayed, e.g. image and icon files. This should be migrated to an online bin if possible, to reduce bundle size.
- `/components`: Contains React components used across the pages. These are organized according to the page. For example, `auth` contains components used for authentication pages.
- `/configs`: Contains configs that may be adjusted to dynamically render items. For example, it currently contains `Navigation.tsx` which represents the navigation headers and subheaders.
- `/hooks`: Stores custom React hooks
- `/lib`: Auto-generated by Shadcn UI.
- `/pages`: Contains pages that are used in the frontend. Note that we use a directory-driven routing structure similar to NextJS. Page directories may contain related React components.
- `/redux`: Contains Redux slices. `pocketmint-frontend` uses [RTK](https://redux-toolkit.js.org/) for global state management.
- `/types`: Contains types used by React components, with a similar structure to `/pages` to reflect the types used in each page.
- `/utils`: Contains utility functions.

# Web Application Design

Pocketmint's frontend design can be found [here](https://www.figma.com/file/hdwTDoAjYmm6FUJsacBy38/Web-App?type=design&node-id=204%3A1499&mode=design&t=axmfd15GdKCnHwhL-1).

# Implemented Features

Currently, Pocketmint has implemented up to [MVP1.1](https://f3dzm8nmrzs.larksuite.com/wiki/BwwUwATpBias3zkKsX8uYs64sxg). Please obtain access to the Lark wiki for more information about MVP1.1.

In summary:

- App setup
- Authentication
- Insurance Tracking

has been completed.

# Issue Tracking

Issue tracking is done by [Linear.app](https://linear.app/). Please login to the Pocketmint account _using Google login_ to view relevant issues to the frontend. Relevant issues and features to this repo are under the "Web Application Frontend" project.

# What's Next?

As of writing, pocketmint-frontend requires more hardening. More testing and bug fixing of existing features needs to be done, as well as optimizations (either performance-wise, UI, UX).

Beyond this, the features outlined in [MVP1.2](https://f3dzm8nmrzs.larksuite.com/wiki/ELZNwgIK8id6W2kHyi1uEVMBshd) should begin work.

**As of writing, fixing deployment should be a top priority.**
